If you don't already have Netcat, go ahead
and try to figure out how to install it,
you can, if you ran the nclp command or
you might have to do Netcat l or p.
Sometimes the options
are a little mixed up.
So you might have to do something
like dash l without the p,
Cuz there's like a couple
of different versions.
There's like a BSD version and
another one.
So, anyways figure out how to run Netcat,
and
Netcat is really nice because
it lets you have a plain text
session with a server or you can be the
server and you can just type in responses.
So here's a fun thing to try, hang on, so
here's some different things you can try.
Probably one of those is gonna work,
the top one or the second one down.
This will listen for
an incoming connection on port 5000.
And then the third one down,
the nc localhost 5000,
if you do that in another terminal window,
you should be able to connect to your
server and you can type a message.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
do that over here on the right.
So I'm gonna do nc dash lp is,
it's how it works in my system.
I could do nc localhost 5000.
Now on either side,
I can type whatever I want, so
I can type, hello, I am the client.
And over here on the server, I can type,
hello clients, I am the server.
And so pretty much,
we have a little chat program-
>> [COUGH]
>> Going on here.
This is more or
less how protocols and
servers and clients work.
Although, if you have a protocol,
the way that you exchange
information is a lot more nailed down,
so it's not so freeform as this.
For example, if you had something like,
maybe you have a convention where you
use brackets to say the username.
But then there's no way of enforcing,
like which side, so the server could lie
about being the client and the client
could lie about being the server.
You can also have multiple
clients connected.
So if I open a third connection
now as a client to my server.
In this case with Netcat,
you can only have one connection.
But if you have a server with node for
example, then you can have as many clients
as you like, up to like, whatever your
system can handle, like probably, maybe
like 5 to 10,000 to expect till
you run out of file descriptors.